Doris
CSSE413 Essay
From the question, I should first define the intelligent system and give the criteria to measure how intelligent the system is and see if my program fits those standards. First, an intelligent system can feel changes in its surroundings and react to them accordingly. For example, an intelligent cleaning robot can detect whether the area is floor or carpet then draw a map of the house based on where it walks, and finally decide where to vacuum or mop. Moreover, the phone's facial recognition technology can unlock or unlock different faces.
Second, I think intelligent systems need to be trained by a lot of data. Since intelligence can also be understood as the ability to learn, the system will be more accurate in its predictions if it is trained with more appropriate data. For example, face recognition is to divide faces into multiple pixel grids and data points then calculate important face parameters, such as the size of the eyes, the distance between the eyes and the mouth, or the distance between the nose and the mouth, and recalculate those parameters according to the angle between the face and the camera. With basic recognition technology, we need a lot of data like photos and videos of faces to test the accuracy of the program and make the system identification more accurate.
Third, I think intelligent systems can imitate, automate or assist some of the people's behaviors. For example, Alexa can give respond to some simple conversations and instructions from people, such as switching on and off appliances, reporting the weather and time, which brings people a lot of conveniences.
Finally, let's go back to the Sudoku program. To begin with, it does respond to changes in its environment which are the input files/test files. Theoretically, the sudoku program can give solutions according to different board sizes and difficulty levels of sudoku. However, my Sudoku program can pass all the soduku9s and sodokuEmpty16 at most. Thus, obviously, my sudoku is not intelligent enough.
For the second feature of the intelligent system, I neither test my sudoku program with all kinds of input nor apply deep learning or machine learning for training.
I think the sudoku program is consistent with the third definition I gave because backtracking is very similar to the way I solve sudoku. Consequently, the Sudoku program does imitate, automate, and assist people in getting answers to sudoku questions.
To sum up, the Sudoku program is intelligent, but only with a little intelligence. It is far from the artificial intelligence we define today and can barely reach the baseline of intelligent systems features.
